---
path: "/en/projects/warrior-web-system/"
date: "2012-07-04"
title: "Warrior Web System"
description: "Small PHP System for creating websites with different layouts and domains that shared the same database."
lang: "en"
tags: ["php", "mysql", "html", "css", "javascript", "web-development", "private-project", "company:panaworld"]
hreflangs: ["es%%/proyectos/sistema-de-webs-de-batalla/", "en%%/en/projects/creating-an-avatar-system-backend-and-panel/"]
---
# The making of Warrior Web System
Just a small yet useful PHP project to create websites with different layouts but sharing the same main database. Ability to configure the sites for data filtering and segmentation. The project was named Warrior so it refers to how the warriors arrive and die in war battles. We knew this could be useless in the future because SEO.

## The problem

The SEO industry is hard. The rules changes often. By the year 2012 it was a common SEO tactic within the industry to create multiple 'child' websites and domains that could benefit a bigger one.

We needed something to deliver websites by just changing a few configs that determined the 'niche filtering'. For example, in a big content website you often have categories, and a database with products categorized.

We just had a big browser videogames database, so we wanted to create a lot of small niche websites specialized into categories. This gave us the power to build interlinking within networks or using smaller websites as a link interchange negotiations that ended up with links on a bigger website.

## The solution

For this project we could have used Wordpress, but because we didn't like the problems WP had, security, slow queries, performance... for technical reasons the final decision was writting a small MySQL + PHP project that had the following features.

* Configuring view layouts
* Configuring niche data filtering
* Create different view layouts.
* Deploying

With the same codebase we hosted many different domains.